.TH AUDIOCONTROL_LISTEN_SHAIRPORTSYNC 1 "July 2025" "AudioControl Manual" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
audiocontrol_listen_shairportsync \- listen for ShairportSync UDP metadata packets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B audiocontrol_listen_shairportsync
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B audiocontrol_listen_shairportsync
is a UDP packet listener for monitoring ShairportSync metadata messages.
This tool provides multiple display modes for analyzing, debugging, and testing
ShairportSync communication.
.PP
The utility listens on a UDP port for ShairportSync metadata packets and can
display them in various formats, collect structured metadata, or dump packets
to binary files for later analysis and testing.
.PP
This tool is particularly useful for:
.IP \(bu 4
Monitoring AirPlay stream metadata in real-time
.IP \(bu 4
Debugging ShairportSync communication issues
.IP \(bu 4
Creating test data for integration tests
.IP \(bu 4
Analyzing artwork and metadata transmission
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
UDP port to listen on (default: 5555)
.TP
.BR \-\-show\-hex
Show raw hex dump for binary data (only used in full mode)
.TP
.BR \-\-mode " " \fIMODE\fR
Display mode for processing packets. Available modes:
.RS
.TP
.BR full
Show all packets with detailed information (default)
.TP
.BR player
Collect metadata and display structured song information
.TP
.BR dump
Dump packets to file with timestamps for later use in tests
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-output\-file " " \fIFILE\fR
Output file for dump mode (default: shairport_dump.bin)
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help information and exit
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit
.SH MODES
.SS Full Mode
In full mode, the tool displays all received packets with detailed information
including timestamps, packet contents, and hex dumps (if requested). This mode
is useful for debugging and understanding the complete ShairportSync protocol.
.PP
The output includes:
.IP \(bu 4
Packet number and source address
.IP \(bu 4
Parsed message type and content
.IP \(bu 4
Chunk information for multi-part data
.IP \(bu 4
Image format detection for artwork
.IP \(bu 4
Optional hex dumps of binary data
.SS Player Mode
Player mode focuses on metadata collection and displays a structured view
of the current song information. This mode filters out internal protocol
messages and presents only user-relevant information.
.PP
The output includes:
.IP \(bu 4
Session start/end notifications
.IP \(bu 4
Playback control events (play, pause, resume)
.IP \(bu 4
Structured song metadata display
.IP \(bu 4
Artwork assembly notifications
.SS Dump Mode
Dump mode saves all received packets to a binary file with relative timestamps.
This mode is designed for creating test data that can be replayed later in
integration tests.
.PP
The binary format includes:
.IP \(bu 4
8-byte relative timestamp (milliseconds from start)
.IP \(bu 4
4-byte packet size (little-endian)
.IP \(bu 4
Raw packet data
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Listen on default port with full packet display:
.B audiocontrol_listen_shairportsync
.TP
Monitor metadata in player-friendly format:
.B audiocontrol_listen_shairportsync --mode player
.TP
Listen on custom port with hex dumps:
.B audiocontrol_listen_shairportsync --port 6666 --show-hex
.TP
Dump packets to file for testing:
.B audiocontrol_listen_shairportsync --mode dump --output-file test_data.bin
.SH SHAIRPORTSYNC INTEGRATION
This tool is designed to work with ShairportSync configured to send metadata
via UDP. To use this tool, configure ShairportSync with the following options
in your configuration file:
.PP
.EX
metadata = {
    enabled = "yes";
    include_cover_art = "yes";
    pipe_name = "/tmp/shairport-sync-metadata";
    pipe_timeout = 5000;
    socket_address = "127.0.0.1";
    socket_port = 5555;
    socket_msglength = 65000;
};
.EE
.PP
Ensure the socket_port matches the port specified with the --port option.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I shairport_dump.bin
Default output file for dump mode
.SH PACKET FORMAT
The tool understands ShairportSync's UDP metadata protocol, which includes:
.IP \(bu 4
Control messages (play, pause, resume, session events)
.IP \(bu 4
Metadata chunks (artist, title, album, artwork)
.IP \(bu 4
Binary data for track numbers, timestamps, and artwork
.IP \(bu 4
Multi-chunk artwork assembly for large images
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.BR SIGINT " (Ctrl+C)"
Gracefully stop the listener and close any open dump files
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error (e.g., failed to bind to port, file creation error)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiocontrol (1),
.BR audiocontrol_send_update (1),
.BR shairport-sync (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Written as part of the AudioControl project.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to the AudioControl project maintainers.
