.TH AUDIOCONTROL_NOWPLAYING 1 "July 2025" "audiocontrol 0.4.10" "AudioControl Manual"
.SH NAME
audiocontrol_nowplaying \- terminal-based now playing display client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B audiocontrol_nowplaying
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B audiocontrol_nowplaying
is a Python-based terminal client that displays currently playing track information from an AudioControl server in a colorful, formatted ASCII interface.
.PP
The client connects to an AudioControl server via HTTP API or WebSocket and displays real-time information about the currently playing track, including title, artist, album, progress bar, and playback controls.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-host " " \fIHOST\fR
AudioControl server hostname or IP address (default: localhost).
.TP
.BR \-\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
AudioControl server port (default: 1080).
.TP
.BR \-\-websocket
Use WebSocket connection for real-time updates instead of polling.
.TP
.BR \-\-interval " " \fISECONDS\fR
Update interval in seconds when using HTTP polling (default: 1.0).
.TP
.BR \-\-width " " \fICOLUMNS\fR
Display width in terminal columns (default: auto-detect).
.TP
.BR \-\-height " " \fIROWS\fR
Display height in terminal rows (default: auto-detect).
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output.
.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B Real-time Updates
Supports both HTTP polling and WebSocket connections for live track updates.
.TP
.B Progress Visualization
Displays a progress bar showing current position within the track.
.TP
.B Responsive Layout
Automatically adapts to terminal size and supports custom dimensions.
.TP
.B Colorful Interface
Uses ANSI colors to create an attractive terminal display (can be disabled).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B audiocontrol_nowplaying
Connect to AudioControl on localhost:1080 using HTTP polling.
.TP
.B audiocontrol_nowplaying --host 192.168.1.100 --websocket
Connect to remote AudioControl server using WebSocket for real-time updates.
.TP
.B audiocontrol_nowplaying --interval 0.5 --width 80
Use 0.5-second polling interval with 80-column display width.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
This tool requires Python 3 and the following Python packages:
.TP
.B python3-websocket
For WebSocket support (optional, only needed with --websocket).
.PP
Install requirements on Debian/Ubuntu:
.br
sudo apt install python3 python3-websocket
.SH NOTES
The tool will gracefully handle connection errors and server unavailability. Press Ctrl+C to exit.
.PP
WebSocket mode provides the most responsive experience but requires the AudioControl server to have WebSocket support enabled.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiocontrol (1),
.BR audiocontrol_send_update (1)
.SH AUTHOR
HiFiBerry <info@hifiberry.com>
