.TH AUDIOCONTROL_INPUT_DEVICES 1 "July 2026" "AudioControl Manual" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
audiocontrol_input_devices \- list input devices usable as remote controls and diagnose why a remote is not working
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B audiocontrol_input_devices
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B audiocontrol_input_devices
is the support tool for "my remote does nothing". It enumerates the same
input devices AudioControl's keyboard/remote input source would consider,
evaluates each one against the configured
.B inputs.keyboard
settings, and reports whether it was matched, filtered out, has no mapped
keys, or could not be opened at all because of a permission problem.
.PP
It reads its keymap and filter settings from the same configuration file
used by the running
.B audiocontrol
service (by default
.IR /etc/audiocontrol/audiocontrol.json ),
so its verdicts reflect exactly what the service would do. A missing or
unparsable configuration file is not fatal: the tool falls back to the
built-in default keymap, since diagnosing a broken configuration is one of
its jobs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-watch
Live-dump keycodes as keys are pressed. The tool attaches to every
enumerated device that passes the configured
.B device
name filter (not only devices already recognised as MATCHED), and prints
each key event together with the action it maps to, or
.B unmapped
if it does not appear in the keymap. This is how the exact code for an
unrecognised remote button is found, so it can be added to
.B keymap
in the configuration file. Runs until interrupted with Ctrl-C.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Configuration file to read the
.B inputs.keyboard
section from (default:
.IR /etc/audiocontrol/audiocontrol.json ).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help information and exit
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.SS Device Listing
Without
.BR \-\-watch ,
each enumerated device is printed as one line: its
.IR /dev/input/eventN
path, its name, and its verdict:
.PP
.nf
/dev/input/event0    "HiFiBerry USBRemote"        MATCHED (8 mapped keys)
/dev/input/event1    "Power Button"               no mapped keys
.fi
.PP
A device can also be reported as filtered out by the
.B device
name filter, or as
.B PERMISSION DENIED
when it could not be opened at all -- the latter is checked independently of
what is shown in the listing, since a permission problem can hide a device
completely even while other devices open normally.
.SS Watch Mode
With
.BR \-\-watch ,
after the listing the tool prints each key press as it happens:
.PP
.nf
press a key... (Ctrl-C to stop)
  KEY_VOLUMEUP (115)  \-> volume_up
  KEY_HOMEPAGE (172)  \-> unmapped
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTIC HINTS
When one or more devices could not be opened, or when the
.B audiocontrol
service user is not a member of the
.B input
group, the tool prints a hint pointing at:
.PP
.nf
ls -l /dev/input/event*   # should be group 'input'
id audiocontrol           # should include the 'input' group
.fi
.PP
The group-membership check is performed directly (independent of the user
running this tool), because this tool is typically run as root by a support
engineer, under which every device opens fine regardless of whether the
.B audiocontrol
service itself has access.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success; no permission problem was detected. A system with no input devices
at all is not itself treated as an error.
.TP
.B 1
A device could not be opened due to a permission problem.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiocontrol (1)
.PP
See the AudioControl project's
.I doc/inputs.md
for the full
.B inputs.keyboard
configuration reference, the default keymap, and step-by-step
troubleshooting.
.SH AUTHORS
Written as part of the AudioControl project.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to the AudioControl project maintainers.
