.TH AUDIOCONTROL_LIST_GENRES 1 "July 2025" "AudioControl Manual" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
audiocontrol_list_genres \- list all genres from artist metadata cache
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B audiocontrol_list_genres
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B audiocontrol_list_genres
is a utility that lists all musical genres from the artist metadata cache,
showing each genre with the number of artists that have it. The results are
sorted by artist count in descending order.
.PP
The tool reads the audiocontrol configuration file to determine the cache
location and processes the artist metadata to extract genre information.
Genre comparison is case-insensitive, so "Rock", "rock", and "ROCK" are
treated as the same genre.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Configuration file path (default: /etc/audiocontrol/audiocontrol.json)
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help information and exit
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/audiocontrol/audiocontrol.json
Default configuration file
.TP
.I /var/lib/audiocontrol/cache/attributes
Default cache directory (configurable via config file)
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
The output shows each genre followed by the number of artists:
.PP
.nf
hip-hop: 10
metal: 20
rock: 15
jazz: 8
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List genres using default configuration:
.B audiocontrol_list_genres
.TP
List genres using custom configuration file:
.B audiocontrol_list_genres -c /path/to/config.json
.SH NOTES
This tool requires that audiocontrol has been running and has populated
the cache with artist metadata. If no genres are found, it may indicate
that genre enrichment hasn't been performed yet.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiocontrol (1),
.BR audiocontrol_dump_cache (1),
.BR audiocontrol_dump_store (1)
.SH AUTHOR
HiFiBerry <info@hifiberry.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 HiFiBerry. All rights reserved.
