.TH AUDIOCONTROL_DUMP_SETTINGSDB 1 "July 2025" "AudioControl Manual" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
audiocontrol_dump_settingsdb \- dump audiocontrol settings database contents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B audiocontrol_dump_settingsdb
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fIPATH\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B audiocontrol_dump_settingsdb
is a utility for inspecting and dumping the contents of the audiocontrol
settings database. This tool is useful for debugging settings-related issues,
understanding current user preferences, and verifying that settings are being
stored correctly.
.PP
The settings database stores user preferences, application configuration,
and other persistent settings in a key-value format using JSON serialization.
This makes the stored data both efficient and human-readable.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help information and exit
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.IR PATH
Path to the settings database directory. If not specified, defaults to
.IR /var/lib/audiocontrol/db
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
The tool outputs settings in a
.IR key|value
format, where each line represents one setting. The value is displayed
as JSON, making it easy to understand the stored data type and structure.
.PP
Example output:
.RS
.nf
Settings database contents (key|value format):
Database path: "/var/lib/audiocontrol/db"
Total entries: 3

user_theme|"dark"
volume_level|75
notifications_enabled|true
user_preferences|{"theme":"dark","language":"en","volume":75}
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/audiocontrol/db
Default settings database directory
.TP
.I /var/lib/audiocontrol/db/conf
Sled database configuration file
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Dump settings database with default path:
.B audiocontrol_dump_settingsdb
.TP
Dump settings database from custom path:
.B audiocontrol_dump_settingsdb /custom/path/to/settings
.TP
Count number of settings:
.B audiocontrol_dump_settingsdb | grep -c "|"
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred (database not found, permission denied, etc.)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiocontrol (1),
.BR audiocontrol_dump_cache (1),
.BR audiocontrol_dump_store (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to the AudioControl project repository.
.SH AUTHOR
HiFiBerry AudioControl team
