.TH AUDIOCONTROL_GET_MPRIS_STATE 1 "July 2025" "audiocontrol 0.4.10" "AudioControl Manual"
.SH NAME
audiocontrol_get_mpris_state \- MPRIS player state inspector and debugging tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B audiocontrol_get_mpris_state
.I PLAYER_IDENTIFIER
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B audiocontrol_get_mpris_state
is a command-line tool for inspecting the current state and properties of MPRIS (Media Player Remote Interfacing Specification) media players.
.PP
This tool connects to a specified MPRIS player via D-Bus and displays comprehensive information about the player's current state, including playback status, track metadata, capabilities, and all available MPRIS properties.
.PP
The tool is useful for debugging MPRIS player issues, understanding player capabilities, and inspecting metadata formatting.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I PLAYER_IDENTIFIER
Bus name or partial name of the MPRIS player to inspect. Can be a full D-Bus name like "org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.vlc" or a partial name like "vlc" for convenience.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B audiocontrol_get_mpris_state org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.vlc
Inspect the VLC media player state and properties.
.TP
.B audiocontrol_get_mpris_state spotify
Inspect Spotify player using partial name matching.
.TP
.B audiocontrol_get_mpris_state shairport
Inspect Shairport Sync (AirPlay receiver) player state.
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
The tool displays information in several sections:
.PP
.B Current Song
- Basic track information including status, title, artist, album, and duration
.PP
.B MPRIS MediaPlayer2 Interface
- Player identity, capabilities, and supported features
.PP
.B MPRIS MediaPlayer2.Player Interface
- Playback controls, status, and player-specific properties
.PP
.B Current Track Metadata
- Detailed metadata including structured song data and raw MPRIS properties
.PP
.B Additional Interfaces
- TrackList and Playlists interfaces if supported by the player
.SH NOTES
This tool scans both session and system D-Bus for MPRIS players. System bus players may require appropriate permissions to access.
.PP
The tool provides both human-readable formatted output and raw MPRIS property dumps for debugging purposes.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiocontrol_list_mpris_players (1),
.BR audiocontrol_monitor_mpris_state (1),
.BR audiocontrol (1)
.SH AUTHOR
HiFiBerry <info@hifiberry.com>
