.TH audiocontrol_monitor_mpris_state 1 "December 2024" "audiocontrol 0.4.9" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
audiocontrol_monitor_mpris_state \- monitor MPRIS player state changes in real-time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B audiocontrol_monitor_mpris_state
.I PLAYER_IDENTIFIER
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B audiocontrol_monitor_mpris_state
monitors MPRIS (Media Player Remote Interfacing Specification) property changes 
for a specified media player in real-time. It displays changes to playback status, 
track metadata, volume, position, and other player properties as they occur.
.PP
The tool works by polling the specified MPRIS player every 500ms and comparing 
the current state with the previous state. When changes are detected, they are 
displayed with timestamps showing what properties changed and their old and new values.
.PP
This tool is similar to running dbus-monitor with appropriate filters, but provides 
formatted output and uses the same player selection mechanism as other audiocontrol 
MPRIS tools.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I PLAYER_IDENTIFIER
Bus name or partial name of the MPRIS player to monitor. This can be:
.IP \(bu 2
Full bus name (e.g., org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.vlc)
.IP \(bu 2
Partial bus name (e.g., vlc, spotify, shairport)
.IP \(bu 2
Player identity name (case-insensitive partial match)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help message and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Monitor VLC player using full bus name:
.nf
.RS
audiocontrol_monitor_mpris_state org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.vlc
.RE
.fi
.PP
Monitor Spotify using partial name match:
.nf
.RS
audiocontrol_monitor_mpris_state spotify
.RE
.fi
.PP
Monitor Shairport Sync MPRIS player:
.nf
.RS
audiocontrol_monitor_mpris_state shairport-mpris
.RE
.fi
.SH OUTPUT
The tool displays:
.IP \(bu 2
Initial player state when monitoring starts
.IP \(bu 2
Timestamps when changes are detected
.IP \(bu 2
Detailed change descriptions showing old → new values
.IP \(bu 2
Updated complete state after changes
.PP
Monitored properties include:
.IP \(bu 2
PlaybackStatus (Playing, Paused, Stopped)
.IP \(bu 2
Track metadata (Title, Artist, Album)
.IP \(bu 2
Position changes (when significant, >2 seconds)
.IP \(bu 2
Volume changes
.IP \(bu 2
Shuffle and Loop status
.IP \(bu 2
Player capabilities
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGINT (Ctrl+C)
Gracefully stop monitoring and exit.
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
This tool is only available on Unix-like systems that support D-Bus.
.IP \(bu 2
The tool uses polling rather than true D-Bus signal monitoring for better compatibility.
.IP \(bu 2
Position changes are only reported if they differ by more than 2 seconds to avoid spam during normal playback.
.IP \(bu 2
Some players may be on the system bus and require appropriate permissions.
.SH EQUIVALENT dbus-monitor COMMAND
This tool is equivalent to running:
.nf
.RS
dbus-monitor --system "type='signal',\\
  interface='org.freedesktop.DBus.Properties',\\
  member='PropertiesChanged',\\
  sender='org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.YourPlayer',\\
  path='/org/mpris/MediaPlayer2'"
.RE
.fi
.PP
But with formatted output and convenient player selection.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiocontrol (1),
.BR audiocontrol_list_mpris_players (1),
.BR audiocontrol_get_mpris_state (1),
.BR dbus-monitor (1)
.SH AUTHOR
HiFiBerry GmbH
