.TH audiocontrol_player_event_client 1 "July 2025" "AudioControl Manual" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
audiocontrol_player_event_client \- send events to AudioControl player API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B audiocontrol_player_event_client
[\fB\-\-host\fR \fIHOST\fR]
.I PLAYER_NAME
.I COMMAND
[\fICOMMAND_OPTIONS\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B audiocontrol_player_event_client
is a command-line tool for sending events to the AudioControl player API. It is designed to work with the generic player API and can send various types of events to control player state.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-host \fIHOST\fR
AudioControl host URL (default: http://localhost:3000)
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help information
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version information
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B state\-changed \fISTATE\fR
Send a playback state change event. STATE can be: playing, paused, stopped, unknown
.TP
.B song\-changed \-\-title \fITITLE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Send a song change event. Required: \-\-title. Optional: \-\-artist, \-\-album, \-\-duration, \-\-uri
.TP
.B position\-changed \fIPOSITION\fR
Send a position change event. POSITION is in seconds (float)
.TP
.B shuffle\-changed \fIBOOL\fR
Send a shuffle state change event. BOOL is true or false
.TP
.B loop\-mode\-changed \fIMODE\fR
Send a loop mode change event. MODE can be: none, song, track, playlist
.TP
.B queue\-changed [\-\-file \fIFILE\fR | \-\-json \fIJSON\fR]
Send a queue change event from a JSON file or inline JSON string
.TP
.B custom \fIJSON\fR
Send a custom event from JSON string
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Send a song change event:
.B audiocontrol_player_event_client my_player song\-changed \-\-title "Song Title" \-\-artist "Artist"
.TP
Change playback state:
.B audiocontrol_player_event_client my_player state\-changed playing
.TP
Update position:
.B audiocontrol_player_event_client my_player position\-changed 120.5
.TP
Enable shuffle:
.B audiocontrol_player_event_client my_player shuffle\-changed true
.TP
Update queue from file:
.B audiocontrol_player_event_client my_player queue\-changed \-\-file queue.json
.TP
Connect to remote host:
.B audiocontrol_player_event_client \-\-host http://192.168.1.100:3000 remote_player state\-changed playing
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Network error, HTTP error, or JSON parsing error
.TP
.B 2
Command-line argument error
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.config/audiocontrol/
Configuration directory (if applicable)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiocontrol (1),
.BR audiocontrol_send_update (1)
.SH AUTHOR
AudioControl Development Team
